# A Natural Language Understanding (NLU) Task: the Java Speech Grammar Format (JSGF) Development using Python

The following is a Context Free Grammar, written using JSGF

```
 #JSGF V1.0 utf-8 en;
 grammar music_play;

 public <music_play> =
	[can you] (play | put on) (<artist> | <song>);

 <artist> =
	 the beatles |
	 radio head |
	 lady gaga |
	 pink floyd;

 <song> =
	 comfortably numb |
	 paranoid android |
	 let it be |
	 hey jude;
```
This grammar creates utterances that express the desire or intent to play music. Then, they are used as training data for statistical models for intent recognition. This grammar can generate utterances using a custom parser as follows:

```
[can you play]<unk> [the beatles]<artist>
[can you put on]<unk> [paranoid android]<song>
```

## Task 1: Extend the English Grammar
Extend the English JSGF development grammar ("jsgf_eng_basic_ruls.txt" under "eng") so that it can cover at least the following utterances.

```
[i want to listen to]<unk> [jazz]<genre> [music]<unk>
[play me]<unk> [ummagumma]<album> [by]<unk> [pink floyd]<artist>
[put]<unk> [lady gaga]<artist> [on]<unk>
```

## Task 2: Localize the JSGF grammar in your language (Korean, here)
Localize the extended English grammar from the above task in Korean.
Considerations
1. Korean is a SOV language
2. Korean utilizes case markers to mark case while English does syntactically

## Procedure
1. Install **pyjsgf** to construct JSGF grammars, convert them into strings or files, and find grammar rules that match speech strings.
Type the following in Terminal.
```
$ pip install pyjsgf
```
If you are installing for developing pyjsgf, clone or download the repository, move to the root directory, and run the following.
```
$ pip install -e .
```
2. Prepare the example utterances in Korean
"kor_test_utters.txt" under "kor": a Korean version of the English test utterances, translated by me

3. Write Korean grammar, and test it
"jsgf_kor_extended_rules.txt" under "kor": Korean grammar (Note: I did not split case markers and particles from words)
"test_kor_grammar.ipynb" under "kor": A script to check whether the test utterances are covered by the grammar

4. Generate Korean utterances, which include at least test utterances
"jsgf_kor_extended_rules_generated_utterance.txt": Utterances generated by the Korean rules using "kor_utters_generator.ipynb"

## Think about the following:
1. Any possible issue, if you were asked to extend the grammar considerably? Can you think about how to overcome it?
2. Which features of Korean complicate the localization? Can you think about how to work around these complications?



